Hey,
guys,
welcome back in this video we're going to speak about public and private variables,
so we're going to see how to declare variables the public so that it would be applicable
throughout your whole workbook and you can run it from any module and we will also see how
to declare.
Private variables are specific to certain modules.
So here at the moment I've got two procedures one called public variables one and the other
one called public variables to now.
Currently,
I've got a variable called X in each of them and it's declared,
is an integer and it will take a value of two on the 1st 1 and it will take a value of
three on the 2nd 1 However,
let me just tell you that the variable X here is different than the variable X here.
So actually each of the two macro XYZ speaking currently about a different variable,
so X at the top is not the same as acts at the bottom,
although they're both called acts.
So how do we make X at the top be the same acts at the bottom?
How do we make the to micro's speak about the same variable.
We can do that by declaring public X as integer,
for example.
And I'm just going to delete this line of code here and delete this line of code because
the type of the variable has been declared at the top.
So in this case,
both set procedures would be speaking about the same variable.
So how do we very find that?
Okay,
well,
we can actually create a watch window for X here,
So I'm going to right click here and click on add watch.
And the expression is gonna be X.
And the context of forex actually is gonna be not a certain sir procedure,
But it's gonna be all procedures since it's a public variable and is gonna be throughout.
Oh,
modules.
Because X being public means that it can run on any module.
Okay?
Or it can be called from any module.
So I'm gonna press.
Okay,
here and now we've got a watch window for X as a variable.
Now I'm going to run through the first procedure here.
So the first visitor is going to set the value of X to be equal to two.
And as you can see here the value of excess to currently on the watch window.
Now watch what happens when I press and sub the value of X is still too okay,
so it's not being cleared from system memory,
as we've seen on the previous lesson.
This is because it's been declared as a public variable,
so it's not specific to a certain macro,
but it's actually public.
So this means that it will retain its value after the macro runs its course.
And now,
if we run the second macro,
so if you step through it step by step by pressing F eight,
you can see Aaron.
Now when we run this step that the value of exchanges to three So actually the second macro
managed to change the same variable as the first macro.
So currently,
in this current state,
they're both speaking about the same variable.
So when you declare a variable as a public,
this means that any procedure in any ma jewel in your workbook can speak about that
variable.
Okay,
so that is the bottom line of this part of this lesson.
so when you declare variables public,
you can speak about it from any.
It's appreciator from any module in your workbook.
Now you can actually make a variable be specific to a certain module in your workbook by
actually declaring as private so private.
Why,
as integer,
for example,
this will make variable.
Why be just specific to module one?
Now,
let's say I'm going to set here y to be equal to five on this procedure.
I'm going to set it to be equal to 10 on the other side procedure.
And I'm gonna actually add a watch with no for Roy.
So I'm going to right click here and click on add watch,
and then I'm gonna actually watch why.
And here the procedure,
the context is gonna be throughout old procedures in module one.
We cannot monitor why throughout all the modules,
because currently it's a private,
so it's gonna be only monitored through model one.
If I said like,
oh,
modules and press OK,
watch what happens here.
It says expression not defined in context.
That means that it's currently defined out of its context because it's context.
It's only module one,
not all the modules.
So for right,
click again it it watch to edit that and put it back to module one and click.
OK,
currently has a value of zero because we haven't changed its value yet,
but now we can actually monitor its value.
So if I run the first procedure,
for example here,
why is five and the end sub Because here,
that why still retains the value of five.
Why is currently specific to just module one?
If I run the 2nd 1 here,
you can see here that when I run the line when y equals 10 F eight through that,
you can see here that its value has changed.
So actually,
both of them are speaking about this same variable.
Why,
If I go to module to for double click on it here,
that's a different module,
and I'm going to create a macro called Public Variables three.
And I'm gonna assign a value for why to be equal to seven.
For example,
here.
If I try to run this macro,
what's what's gonna happen here?
Actually,
the value of why at the bottom does not change,
Okay,
I'm going to do it again.
Watch the value for the variable that we're watching,
which is why.
And this is a private variable specific to model one When I read this line of code the
value there's not changed because this why variable is different from this.
Why variable that we're watching.
If I wanna watch this,
why,
variable,
I gotta add another watch and the watch that I'm gonna add is going to be for public
variables.
Three in module to this.
Why variable here is actually specific to just module to.
So if I run it and it's actually a very in because I haven't declared its type if I run it
,
you can see it.
This one changes because this is the one that we should be monitoring because this one is
specific to the sub procedure called public variables.
Three.
So,
basically,
the bottom line is that if you need your variable to be able to be cold from any procedure
from any module in your workbook than declare as a public variable,
if you need your variable to be,
just be able to get cold from just a specific module.
So from any procedure in that specific module,
just declare as a private if you need to be,
just be specific to a search and step procedure than don't make it a public or private just
Dimmitt inside the sir procedure.
And it will be just specific to that particular sub procedure.
So that's it,
guys,
for this lesson.
Thank you very much.
Watching this video I'll see on the next one.